[Issue_668] Jakarta Data blog post (#670)
wildfly/wildfly.org: _posts/2024-10-10-jakarta-data.adoc

* How to configure build time generation of the implementation of your `@Repository` interfaces.
* How to configure the runtime behavior of the Hibernate ORM instance that will interact with the database.

=== Build-time Generation of Repository Implementations

An application author using Jakarta Data simply writes an interface for their repository, but of course for that to work at runtime there must be an actual implementation of that interface. It's the responsibility of the Jakarta Data provider to provide that implementation. Hibernate Data Repositories does this by generating the implementation classes as part of the build of your application.

So, to use Jakarta Data with WildFly Preview you need to configure the generation of those classes as part of your application build. In a Maven build this is done configuring the Maven compiler plugin to use the `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-jpamodelgen` artifact as an annotation processor:

[source,xml]
----
    <build>
        <plugins>
            <plugin>
                <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
                <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>

>                 <version>3.12.0</version> <!-- 3.12 or later is necessary for proper dependency management in annotationProcessorPaths -->

Reviewer: Might as well recommend the latest 3.12 while you're at it; 3.12.0 had some rather annoying issues that did impact other projects: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MCOMPILER-567

```suggestion
                <version>3.12.1</version> <!-- 3.12 or later is necessary for proper dependency management in annotationProcessorPaths -->
```

                            <artifactId>hibernate-jpamodelgen</artifactId>
                        </path>
                    </annotationProcessorPaths>
                </configuration>
            </plugin>
        </plugins>
    </build>
----

Note that there is no version element in the `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-jpamodelgen` declaration above. You could provide one, but best practice is to control the version in your pom's `dependencyManagement`. Importing the `org.wildfly.bom:wildfly-ee-preview-with-tools` BOM lets you align the version of Hibernate artifacts with what's used in your target WildFly Preview runtime:

[source,xml]
----
    <dependencyManagement>
        <dependencies>
            <!-- importing the ee-with-tools BOM adds specs and other useful artifacts as managed dependencies -->
            <dependency>
                <groupId>org.wildfly.bom</groupId>
                <artifactId>wildfly-ee-preview-with-tools</artifactId>
                <version>34.0.0.Beta1</version>
                <type>pom</type>
                <scope>import</scope>
            </dependency>
        </dependencies>
    </dependencyManagement>
----

> WARNING: Some users may have learned to configure Hibernate annotation processing by declaring `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-jpamodelgen` as a `provided` dependency in their pom. With the Hibernate version used with WildFly, link:https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/wiki/Migration-Guide-3.7#jpamodelgen[this will likely fail, window=_blank]. Use the `maven-compiler-plugin` configuration approach described above.

Reviewer: Alternative link that does not involve Quarkus: https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/orm/6.3/migration-guide/migration-guide.html#metamodel-generation

```suggestion
WARNING: Some users may have learned to configure Hibernate annotation processing by declaring `org.hibernate.orm:hibernate-jpamodelgen` as a `provided` dependency in their pom. With the Hibernate version used with WildFly, link:https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/orm/6.3/migration-guide/migration-guide.html#metamodel-generation[this will likely fail, window=_blank]. Use the `maven-compiler-plugin` configuration approach described above.
```
